
"A GENTLEMAN to see you, Doctor."

From across the common a clock sounded the half-hour.

"Ten-thirty!" I said.  "A late visitor.  Show him up, if you please."

I pushed my writing aside and tilted the lamp-shade, as footsteps
sounded on the landing.  The next moment I had jumped to my feet,
for a tall, lean man, with his square-cut, clean-shaven face
sun-baked to the hue of coffee, entered and extended both hands,
with a cry:

"Good old Petrie!  Didn't expect me, I'll swear!"

It was Nayland Smith--whom I had thought to be in Burma!

"Smith," I said, and gripped his hands hard, "this is a delightful surprise!
Whatever--however--"

"Excuse me, Petrie!" he broke in.  "Don't put it down to the sun!"
And he put out the lamp, plunging the room into darkness.

I was too surprised to speak.

"No doubt you will think me mad," he continued, and, dimly,
I could see him at the window, peering out into the road,
"but before you are many hours older you will know that I
have good reason to be cautious.  Ah, nothing suspicious!
Perhaps I am first this time."  And, stepping back to the
writing-table he relighted the lamp.

"Mysterious enough for you?" he laughed, and glanced at my unfinished MS.
"A story, eh?  From which I gather that the district is beastly healthy--
what, Petrie?  Well, I can put some material in your way that, if sheer
uncanny mystery is a marketable commodity, ought to make you independent
of influenza and broken legs and shattered nerves and all the rest."

I surveyed him doubtfully, but there was nothing in his appearance
to justify me in supposing him to suffer from delusions.  His eyes
were too bright, certainly, and a hardness now had crept over his face.
I got out the whisky and siphon, saying:

"You have taken your leave early?"

"I am not on leave," he replied, and slowly filled his pipe.
"I am on duty."

"On duty!" I exclaimed.  "What, are you moved to London or something?"

"I have got a roving commission, Petrie, and it doesn't rest
with me where I am to-day nor where I shall be to-morrow."

There was something ominous in the words, and, putting down my glass,
its contents untasted, I faced round and looked him squarely in the eyes.
"Out with it!" I said.  "What is it all about?"

meowmer meowwing meowth
